Let's talk about Web scraping.
One of the things we can do with python what is web scraping.
Well web scraping simply means programmatically using Python or any language grabbing data from a Web
site.
So for example I can grab data from Amazon from air being B from maybe a recipe Web site.
Any Web site can be scraped.
So essentially when we talk about Web scraping we mean downloading a web page grabbing the data from
that web page cleaning it up somehow so that it's useful for us and then using that data.
You see this is how Web sites work.
We have a browser that we use like a chrome and we have a server.
A server is simply a computer somewhere in the world that has three files that are needed to display
a web page.
We have an HMO file which is the content of the Web site.
You can think of that as text and images of a Web site.
We have CSX which gives us the colors and pretty styling that Web sites have.
And then we have Javascript which allows us to have different behaviors in our Web site like submitting
forms or having dropdown menus and all a browser does like Chrome is say hey if Andre visits this Web
site let's say FIFA dot com browser is going to know when I type in FIFA dot com that says hey server
can you give me the FIFA dot com.
A simple CSF in JavaScript files and the server says yep no problem here they are.
And then the page get displayed onto our browser.
So these three files Well the data in them is accessible to us.
Right.
It gets displayed on a web page.
So these files are now something that we can actually check up.
For example if we go to the FIFA dot com Web site you see over here that well we have a pretty page
with a lot of information.
That's great.
And if I right click here and do view page source this is the A.T.M. page of the FIFA Web site.
As you can see it's pretty long but it has all the data that we see in this page.
Now the C Ss and JavaScript files are linked to it but the main data that is the text maybe the images
are all here.
So for example we have latest news we have top 10 goals from the woman's World Cup.
Well let's find out.
Let's say top 10 goals from the Women's World Cup.
You see that's what we have.
We have the text right here in the web scraping is simply this grabbing this data and then removing
all the parts that we don't care about and just keeping the parts that we care about.
And web scraping works because this information is public.
In order for a Web site to get displayed it has to be public.
Maybe you're still wondering why web scraping might be useful Well there are many many cases for it.
For example I'll link to this resource where it talks about some of the big uses for web scraping.
Why would we want to scrape a Web site and you can see here there's many reasons.
Maybe you want to get sale leads.
That is you want to collect all the e-mails that are on a web page maybe a contact form.
Maybe you have a yoga office software product.
Maybe go to every single yoga studios web page and find the contact information scrape that data so
you don't have to manually do it.
Maybe you want to find all the jobs and open positions on a Web site.
And instead of manually clicking through different pages you can scrape that data and there's many many
use cases in our project that we're going to built for this session.
We're actually going to scrape Hacker News a very popular Web site for many programmers and we're gonna
turn this into something even more useful for us to read analyze and stay current with our industry.
But we'll get to that in a bit.
Let's take a break here and learn a little bit more about web scraping in the next video.